
ASP.NET


QUIZ

1 - 1
Which of the following is not an ASP component
2 Marks
linkcounter
counter
adrotator
fileaccess


fileaccess

Explanation:
In classic ASP (Active Server Pages), common built-in components include:
AdRotator – displays rotating banner ads.
Counter / LinkCounter – track visits or link clicks (custom or sample components).
However, FileAccess is not an ASP component — it refers to file handling, which is done using the FileSystemObject instead.

2 - How do you get information from a form that is submitted using a "post" method
2 Marks
request query string
request.form
response.write
response.writeln

Request.Form
Explanation:
When a form is submitted using the POST method in ASP.NET, the form data is sent in the HTTP request body.
You can access this data using:
Request.Form["controlName"]

Summary:
Request.QueryString → used for GET method (data in URL).
Request.Form → used for POST method (data in request body).
Response.Write / Response.Writeln → used to output data to the browser, not to retrieve it.


3 - 3
Which of the following is the Microsoft IIS server running,handling ASP.NET requests among other things
2 Marks
aspnet_isapi.dll
aspnet_wp.exe
x inetinfo.exe
none of the above

inetinfo.exe

Explanation:
The inetinfo.exe process is the main executable for Microsoft IIS (Internet Information Services).
It handles:
Web service requests (HTTP)
SMTP, FTP, and NNTP services

And it manages ASP.NET requests by coordinating with components like aspnet_isapi.dll and aspnet_wp.exe.
Summary:
Component	Role
inetinfo.exe	IIS main process — handles and routes web requests
aspnet_isapi.dll	ISAPI extension that passes ASP.NET requests to the runtime
aspnet_wp.exe	ASP.NET worker process (used in older IIS versions like IIS 5)

4 - 4
For separating server side code on ASP.NET page,what programming model should be used?
2 Marks
separation model
x code-behind model
in-line model
client server madel


Code-behind model
Explanation:
In ASP.NET, the code-behind model is used to separate the server-side logic (C#/VB code) from the HTML markup on the page.
How it works:
The .aspx file contains HTML and server control declarations.
The .aspx.cs (or .aspx.vb) file contains the C# (or VB) server-side code.

This promotes clean separation, better maintainability, and reusability.
Therefore, the correct answer is Code-behind model.


5 - 5
What is the sequence in which ASP.NET events are processed.A.pageload B.page_unload C.pageinit D.control events
2 Marks
ADCB
CABD
x CADB
ACDB

ACDB
Explanation:
The correct sequence of ASP.NET Page Life Cycle events is:
A – Page_Init → Page and controls are initialized.
C – Page_Load → Page loads with data and controls populated.
D – Control Events → Events like button clicks are handled.
B – Page_Unload → Cleanup is performed before the page is unloaded.
Therefore, the correct order is:
Page_Init → Page_Load → Control Events → Page_Unload → (ACDB)


6 - 6
An alternate way of displaying text on web page using
2 Marks
x asp:label
asp:listitem
asp:button
asp:radiobutton

asp:Label
Explanation:
The <asp:Label> control is used to display text on a web page in ASP.NET.
It is the server-side equivalent of writing plain text or HTML labels, and it allows you to:
Set text dynamically from the server (e.g., Label1.Text = "Hello";)
Format or style the text easily.
Summary:
Control	Purpose
asp:Label	Display text
asp:ListItem	Used within DropDownList or ListBox
asp:Button	Triggers postback events
asp:RadioButton	For user selection options


7 - 7
In which event all the controls are fully loded
2 Marks
page_init
x page_load
control events
page_unload


Page_Load

Explanation:
During the Page_Load event in the ASP.NET page life cycle, all controls are fully loaded and initialized — meaning:
Their properties are restored from ViewState.
They are ready to be accessed and modified in your code.
Summary of key events:

Event	Description
Page_Init	Controls are initialized, but not yet loaded with data.
Page_Load	All controls are fully loaded and can be safely used.
Control Events	Occur after Page_Load (e.g., button clicks).
Page_Unload	Cleanup before page is destroyed.
Therefore, the correct answer is Page_Load.



8 - 8
What is the name of the property of ASP.NET that you can query to determine that a ASP.NET page is being requested not data being submitted to web server
2 Marks
firstget
initialized
includesdata
x is postback

IsPostBack
Explanation:
The IsPostBack property of an ASP.NET Page object indicates whether:
The page is being loaded for the first time (IsPostBack == false), or
The page is being reloaded due to a form submission (a postback — IsPostBack == true).

Example:
protected void Page_Load(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
    if (!IsPostBack)
    {
        // Page is requested for the first time
    }
}

Therefore, the correct answer is IsPostBack.


9 - 9
Web.config file is used...
2 Marks
To configure the web browser
Configures the time that the server-side codebehind module is called
To store the global information and variable definitions for the application
To configure the web server


To store the global information and variable definitions for the application
Explanation:
The Web.config file in ASP.NET is an XML-based configuration file used to define settings that apply to a web application, such as:
Database connection strings
Session state configuration
Authentication and authorization rules
Custom error pages
Application-level variables

Summary:
Option	Explanation
Configure web browser	 Browser settings are not controlled here
Configure code-behind timing  Not applicable
Store global app info	Correct — this is the purpose of Web.config
Configure web server	 That’s done via IIS, not Web.config

Therefore, the correct answer is “To store the global information and variable definitions for the application.”



10 - 0
What class does the ASP.NET Web Form class inherit from by default?
2 Marks
System.Web.GUI.Page
System.Web.UI.Page
x System.Web.UI.Form
System.Web.Form

System.Web.UI.Page
Explanation:
Every ASP.NET Web Form (.aspx page) is implemented as a class that inherits from the System.Web.UI.Page class.
This base class provides:
The page lifecycle (Init, Load, Render, Unload, etc.)
Access to server controls, ViewState, and Request/Response objects.

Example (auto-generated code-behind):
public partial class WebForm1 : System.Web.UI.Page
{
    protected void Page_Load(object sender, EventArgs e)
    {
    }
}
Therefore, the correct answer is System.Web.UI.Page.


11 - 11
Choose the option where Postback occurs.
2 Marks
HTMLForms
x Webforms
winforms
Assemblies

WebForms
Explanation:
Postback is the process in ASP.NET Web Forms where the page is sent to the server, processed, and then returned to the client browser.
It happens when a user interacts with a control that causes the form to submit — for example, clicking an ASP.NET Button (<asp:Button>).

Summary:
Option	Description
HTMLForms	Regular HTML form, no ASP.NET postback mechanism
WebForms	ASP.NET page that supports postback events
WinForms	Desktop application — no concept of postback
Assemblies	Code libraries — not UI related
Therefore, the correct answer is WebForms.

12 - 12
File extension used for ASP.NET files
2 Marks
.Web
x .ASPX
.CS
.ASP

.ASPX
Explanation:
ASP.NET web pages use the .aspx file extension. These files contain:
HTML markup
Server controls (like <asp:Button>, <asp:Label>)
And are linked to a code-behind file (usually .aspx.cs or .aspx.vb).

Summary:
Extension	Description
.ASPX	ASP.NET Web Form page
.ASP	Classic ASP page (old technology)
.CS	C# code file (used for code-behind)
.WEB	Not used in ASP.NET

Therefore, the correct answer is .ASPX.

13 - 13
An alternative way of displaying text on web page using
2 Marks
x asp:label
asp:listitem
asp:button
asp:TextBox

asp:Label
Explanation:
The <asp:Label> control is used to display static or dynamic text on a web page in ASP.NET.
It’s the simplest way to show text that can be changed from the server side using code like:
Label1.Text = "Welcome to ASP.NET!";

Summary:
Control	Purpose
asp:Label	Display text on a webpage
asp:ListItem	Used inside list controls (e.g., DropDownList)
asp:Button	Triggers postback events
asp:TextBox	For user input, not for displaying static text
Therefore, the correct answer is asp:Label.


14 - 14
Which of the following ASP.NET object encapsulates the state of the client?
2 Marks
x Session object
Application object
Response object
Server object

Session object
Explanation:
The Session object in ASP.NET is used to store and manage information about a single user (client) across multiple requests.
It maintains the state of the client during a browsing session — for example, keeping a user’s login info or shopping cart data.

Summary:
Object	Description
Session	Stores client-specific data (user state)
Application	Stores data shared by all users
Response	Sends output to the client browser
Server	Provides access to server-side utilities
Therefore, the correct answer is Session object.


15 - 15
We can manage states in asp.net application using
2 Marks
Session Objects
Application Objects
Viewstate
All of the above













