

QUIZ 

Date: 29-11-2025

1 - 1
What is the purpose of WSDL in a web service?
2 Marks
A web services takes the help of WSDL to tag the data, format the data.
A web service takes the help of WSDL to transfer a message.
x A web service takes the help of WSDL to describe the availability of service.
None of the above

A web service takes the help of WSDL to describe the availability of service.
Explanation:
WSDL (Web Services Description Language) describes:
What the service does
What methods (operations) are available
What parameters and return types exist
How to call the service
The service endpoint (URL)
So the correct option is:

👉 A web service takes the help of WSDL to describe the availability of service.


2 - 2
Which of the following is true about behavioral characteristics of web services?
2 Marks
Asynchronous clients retrieve their result at a later point in time, while synchronous clients receive their result when the service has completed
A web service supports RPC by providing services of its own, equivalent to those of a traditional component, or by translating incoming invocations into an invocation of an EJB or a .NET component.
Web services support the transparent exchange of documents to facilitate business integration
x All of the above

All of the above
Explanation:
All three statements describe valid behavioral characteristics of web services:
1️⃣ Asynchronous vs synchronous behavior
✔ True — web services can handle both synchronous and asynchronous client calls.
2️⃣ Support for RPC-style communication
✔ True — SOAP-based web services can behave like RPC (Remote Procedure Call) by invoking components on the server side.
3️⃣ Support for document-style messaging
✔ True — web services can exchange XML documents to enable business-level integration.
Since all statements are correct:
👉 Correct option: All of the above

3 - 3
Which component of Web Services does not acts as a directory?
2 Marks
XML
SOAP
WSDL
UDDI

The only Web Services component that acts as a directory is UDDI.
So the components that do NOT act as a directory are:
XML → data format
SOAP → messaging protocol
WSDL → service description language
Since the question asks for one answer, the intended correct option is:
✅ SOAP
(They commonly frame SOAP as the contrasting option because XML and WSDL are also not directories, but SOAP is the one most clearly “not a directory service.”)

4 - 
Web services communicate using __________.
2 Marks
x Open Protocols
Close Protocols
Open Close Protocol
none of the above

Open Protocols
Explanation:
Web services use standard, platform-independent, open protocols such as:
HTTP
XML
SOAP
WSDL
These are not proprietary or closed, so:
👉 Open Protocols is the correct choice.


5 - Which of the following is a security issue with web services?
2 Marks
Confidentiality
Authentication
Network Security
x all of the above

all of the above
Explanation:
Web services face several security issues, including:
Confidentiality → ensuring data is not exposed
Authentication → verifying the identity of users/services
Network Security → protecting communication channels from attacks
Since all apply:
👉 all of the above


6 - 6
Service Description is responsible for describing the public interface to a specific web service.
2 Marks
x TRUE
FALSE 

TRUE
Explanation:
Service Description (WSDL) defines the public interface of a web service, including:
Available methods
Input and output parameters
Data types
Service endpoint
So the statement is true.


7 - 7
Which of the following is an object that provides local representation of a remote web service?
2 Marks
ServerBindings metabase
FTP service
Web Forms
x Web Service Proxy

Web Service Proxy
Explanation:
A web service proxy is a class generated on the client side that represents the remote web service locally.
You call its methods as if it's a local object, and it sends SOAP requests to the actual service.
So the correct option is:
👉 Web Service Proxy


8 - 8
A Web Service reference need to be added in client application before using that.
2 Marks
x TRUE
FALSE

TRUE
Explanation:
Before a client application can call a web service, it must:
Add a Web Service Reference (in .NET this generates the proxy class)
This proxy allows the client to call web service methods as if they were local
So the statement is true.


9 - 9
Service Description is responsible for describing the public interface to a specific web service.
2 Marks
Web form
x Web  Service Client
Windows Form
all of the above

Web Service Client
Explanation
WSDL describes the public interface of the service (methods, inputs, outputs, URL).
The client reads the WSDL and uses it to generate the proxy.
Web Forms and Windows Forms don’t describe the interface—they may use the client, but they are not responsible for understanding WSDL.
👉 Therefore, the right answer is Web Service Client.



10 - How many types of authentication ASP.NET supports?
2 Marks
Windows Authentication.
Passport Authentication.
Forms Authentication.
x all of the above

all of the above
Explanation:
ASP.NET supports several authentication types, including:
Windows Authentication
Passport Authentication (older Microsoft service)
Forms Authentication
Therefore:
👉 all of the above


11 - Choose Web.config file is used for?
2 Marks
Configures the time that the server-side codebehind module is called
x To store the global information and variable definitions for the application
To configure the web server
To configure the web browser

To store the global information and variable definitions for the application
Explanation:
The web.config file is used to configure:
Authentication
Authorization
Session state
Connection strings
Error pages
Application-level settings
It does NOT configure the browser or decide when code-behind runs.
So the correct choice is:
👉 To store the global information and variable definitions for the application


12 - 12
What class does the ASP.NET Web Form class inherit from by default?
2 Marks
x System.Web.UI.Page
System.Web.UI.Form
System.Web.GUI.Page
System.Web.Form

The correct answer is:
✅ System.Web.UI.Page
Explanation:
Every ASP.NET Web Form (.aspx page) automatically inherits from the Page class located in the System.Web.UI namespace.

Example behind the scenes:
public partial class MyPage : System.Web.UI.Page
{
}
So the correct choice is:
👉 System.Web.UI.Page


13 - Element in the web.config file to run code using the permissions of a specific user is?
2 Marks
< credential> element
< authentication> element
< authorization> element
x < identity> element

The correct answer is:

✅ <identity> element
Explanation:
The <identity> element in web.config is used for impersonation, which allows ASP.NET to run code using the permissions of a specific user.
Example:
<identity impersonate="true" userName="domain\user" password="password" />
This executes the application using that user’s permissions.
So the correct option is:
👉 <identity> element


14 - 14
Where do we include the user lists for windows authentication?
2 Marks
< Credential>
x < authorization>
< identity>
< authentiation>

The correct answer is:
✅ <authorization>
Explanation:
In Windows Authentication, you control which Windows users or groups are allowed or denied by configuring the:
<authorization>
section in web.config.
Example:
<authorization>
    <allow users="DOMAIN\User1" />
    <deny users="*" />
</authorization>

<authorization> → used to include or exclude user lists
<credential> → used in Forms Authentication, not Windows
<identity> → used for impersonation
<authentication> → only selects authentication mode, not user lists
So the correct answer is:
👉 <authorization>


15 - 











