

Topic
Agenda 

Part1: 

Why and What is State Management 

Client side: State Management Techniques
Server side: Side Management Technique

Objective : Available Client side and server-side techniques 


Why ? Information would be lost with each round - trip. To preserves data as pr page basis and application wide basis 
All we application require high level of state management from control to application level 
Refers to preserving state of a control or a at tool in web pages application explicitly 

State means an interaction between the user and the server
HTTP Protocol acts like a bridge between them but is a stateless protocol
With each request the object are created and memory is being allocated  
These resources are destroy ed once the server completes its process



Client & server side state Management technique 

Client Side : 
ViewState: used to maintain the state in the same page 
Query String : Used to carry data from existing page to next page 
Cookie: Used to maintain the user authenticated details in the client machine itself
 Cache : Used to store the data in cache (in memory) Responsible for reply with the previous result till the new result is generated.


Server side state management techniques 
Application :   Used to maintain the state from application start to application stop 
Session :  Used to maintain the state from session login to session logout 



Part2: 
Topics: State Management Techniques, Viewstate, Querystring, Pro and cons of Querystring, Cookies, Types of Cookies, Http cookies class 

State Management Techniques :  
ViewState : Used to maintain the state the state in the same webpage (current web form) 
Preserve page and controls property values between round trips. When the page is processed, the current state of the page and controls are stored into a string. 
Then saved in teh page as a hidden field 

To achieve this, there is two ways: 
1. Set the properties of controls EnableViewState: true
2. ViewStateMode = "Enabled" in <%@Page attribute%> in every webapge

Features: Viewstate 
View stat is a repository in an ASP.NET page
The page framework uses view state to persist control settings between postbacks
Keep values between postbacks without storing them in session state or in a user profile
Store the values of page or control properties that you define 

Advantages & Disadvantages – Viewstate
Advantages:
i) No server resources.
ii) Viewstate ensures security because it stores the data in encrypted format.
iii) Viewstates are simple. They are used by enabling or disabling the viewstate properties.
iv) It is based on the wish of developer that they want to implement it at the page level or at control level.

Disadvantages:
i) If large amount of data is stored on the page, then page load might cause a problem.
ii) Does not track across pages.


Query String 

What is a QueryString?
A technique used to carry data from one webpage to another
HTML addresses use QueryString property to pass values between pages
A collection of key value pairs separated by two symbols
Two symbols are & and ? are of datatype string
It is ideal for data transfer from one page to another using hyperlink or URL


Advantages and Disadvantages – QueryString
Advantages:
Supported by all browsers
Easy syntax
No need to decode
Disadvantages:
Limited in variable count, i.e., URL length is 255
Data visible in URL
Cannot send characters like &, +, space, etc


Cookies
A text file created by the server & is stored in the client machine
A user can store his authenticated sign-in on his computer itself
Maximum size of a cookie is 4 KB
Number of cookies per browser:
➤ 20 in old browsers
➤ 300 in new browsers
To work with cookies, we require the System.Web namespace
A cookie is a name–value pair collection


Types of Cookies
Persistent cookies	Non-Persistent cookies
These are permanent cookies	These are temporary cookies
Stored in client hard drive	Stored in client browser memory
Stores text file as permanent	Stores in browser as temporary
Browser independent	Browser dependent
Need to specify expiry	When we don’t specify the expiry, the cookie is non-persistent

Advantages & Disadvantages – Cookies

Advantages
User Friendly
Availability
Convenience
Marketing
Configurations
Server Requirement

Disadvantages
Browser Impacts
Security Risks
Size Limitations
Privacy Concerns
Manual Disabling
Encoding Information

HttpCookie Class

Used to create and manipulate cookies. It includes two cookie collections
The collection accessed through the cookies collection of the HttpRequest object contains cookies
Transmitted by the client to the server in the Cookie header
The collection accessed through the cookies collection of the HttpResponse object contains new cookies created on the server

These are transmitted to the client in the Set-Cookie HTTP response header
➤ Response.Cookies.Add() : used to add a cookie into the cookie object
➤ Request.Cookies[] : used to read data from cookies




HttpCookie Class
Property name	Description
Domain	Specifies which domain is associated with this cookie. Default is the current domain
Expires	A DateTime value specifies the expiry time of the cookie
Secure	Set this if cookies are transmitted over SSL
Name	Cookie name
Value	Cookie value (string)



How to Determine if Cookie is Enabled

To programmatically allow cookies to be enabled in your application

In the page_load event, the below code has to be written:

private void page_load event
{
    If ( Request.Browser.Cookies == true )
        Response.Write("Browser enabled cookies");
    else
        Response.Write("Browser disabled cookies");
}




Topics

Cache
Cache memory location
Types of cache
• Output cache
• Data Cache
• Fragment cache

Web user control
Creating web user control
Web.Config file


Objectives
At the end of this module you will be able to:
Get complete idea on Cache
Know about different types of cache
Create web user control



Cache
An in-memory area created by the web server to store data temporarily
Stores data objects, parts of a page, etc.
Allows you to avoid recreating information

If the page output is available in the cache:
➤ It will render from cache
➤ Execute the page
➤ Render the output to browser
➤ Cache for specified time

Caching helps to achieve three aspects of QoS:
Performance
Scalability
Availability


Cache Memory Location
Location of Cache memory	Description
Client	Maintains the cache in the client machine, in the client browser itself
Server	Maintains the cache at server computer (web server)
Proxy	In LAN, the server computer
ServerAndClient	Both the places
None	Not to maintain the cache
Any	Depends upon its availability, the cache memory stored
Downstream	Browser and Proxy


Advantages & Disadvantages – Cache

Advantages
Reduce load on Web Services / Database
Increase Performance
Reliability

Disadvantages
Could run into issues syncing caches
Increased Maintenance
Scalability Issues

Cache Types
Types of cache

Output Cache
Page-level caching

Data Cache
Variable level caching

Fragment Cache
User control caching


Output Cache
One of the easiest ways of caching
Caching is done at the page level
Requires giving the duration for caching and the attribute for caching
To make a webpage use Output page cache, the @OutputCache directive is used
@OutputCache should exist only on a webpage; it cannot be used on a master page
Syntax:
<%@ OutputCache VaryByParam="none" duration="10" %>


Output Cache Properties

To place separate cache for a set of controls
» VaryByParam="TextBox1;TextBox2"

To place separate cache for all controls
» VaryByParam="*"

Output Cache Properties Table
Property	Description
Duration	Used to specify number of seconds the page is to be cached
VaryByParam	Used to specify whether the cache is related to individual controls or not
VaryByParam = none	Makes a common cache for every user/webpage
VaryByParam = "TextBox1"	Used to maintain a separate cache for every page on control TextBox1


Data Cache
The process of storing data in memory for quick access
One of the more common items stored in a cache in a web application environment is commonly displayed database values

Helps in caching such information, rather than relying on repeated database calls
The demand on the web server and database server's system resources is decreased
The web application’s scalability is increased

Where is it used?
Used to store the data in variables which can be used in regular calls



Fragment Cache
By default, Output Cache is a webpage cache (it will cache the entire page)
Fragment Cache is the part of page cache
It is actually caching a user control that can be used in a base web form page
The process of caching part of a web page is called Fragment Cache
Also called Partial Caching
@OutputCache used on user controls is called Fragment Cache



Web User Control
ASP.NET user controls let you encapsulate the functionality of multiple server controls in a unit
A collection of existing controls
User controls are made up of one or more ASP.NET server controls
Controls such as Button controls, TextBox controls, etc.
Also contains code that is required for the controls to perform the function that you want to accomplish
Helps in the re-usability of code as well as UI
User control does not have HTML form tag
Namespace to be imported: System.Web.UI.UserControl


Web User Control

Difference between Web Page and Web User Control

Web Page	Web User Control
Contains .aspx	Contains .ascx
<form></form>	No form element
@Page	@control
It is a UI	It is part of UI


Attributes for Web User Control

User control requires directives like:

@Page
» Refers to the web page type

@Control directive
» All the user controls will be added with this tag
» This directive specifies the current page belongs to web user control

@Register
» This attribute is used to register a web user control to the web form
» The above attribute helps in registering the control to the current web page



Web.config File
Web.config file is a configuration file
Contains configuration details of the current directory in a web application
It is basically an XML file that contains XML tags
Each and every folder can have one web.config file
The settings available in the web.config file will be available in all pages of the respective folder
Web.config can be used to place settings like Connection string, appsettings, Security Settings (authentication, authorization), sessionState, etc.
The namespace for using web.config file is System.Configuration


Topics

Server side: State management techniques
Session
Session Events
Session Vs Cookie
Application state
Application state events

Objectives
At the end of this module you will be able to:
Introduction to Server side State Management Techniques
Know the difference between Session and Cookie



Server Side State Management Techniques: Session

Session
Used to store the data which can be accessible on all the pages in the website
Maintains the state of the data to be accessed in the entire session
It is an instance of the System.Web.SessionState.HttpSessionState class
Sessions are basically stored in server memory, called In-Process
Can also store session as Out-of-Process
Session state leads to scalability issues, so it must be used thoughtfully
Sessions are created by the web server and the object of the session comes from HttpSession


Advantages & Disadvantages – Session

Advantages:
Easy to implement
Ensures data durability
Works in the multi-process configuration, ensures platform scalability

Disadvantages:
Not advisable to use session state when working with large sum of data.
Too many variables in the memory affect performance.


Session (Contd.)
We can declare session variables using the following syntax:
Session["uname"] = txtUname.Text;

To get value from session:
label1.Text = Session["uname"].ToString();

The events of sessions are Session_Start and Session_End.
Session Events

The events of sessions are Session_Start and Session_End:

Session_Start	Session_End
Event is raised at every user session start	Event is raised whenever a user logs out
Event contains definition to store username logged in	Event contains definition to abandon the session

Methods:
Application.Lock : Used to lock the application until the session operation is complete
Application.UnLock : Used to unlock the user once the session operation is complete

Session vs Cookie
Session	Cookie
Stored in Web Server	Stored on Client Machine
Session expires when the user logs out; Session is a single-user global data	Text file that stores one user's data
Session stored in sessionMode = InProc, StateServer, SqlServer, Custom	Stored in Browser or Text File
Advantages & Disadvantages – Session
Advantages:
Easy to implement
Ensures data durability
Works in multi-process configuration, ensures platform scalability

Disadvantages:
Not advisable to use session state when working with large amounts of data
Too many variables in memory affect performance



Why Application State?

Application object is used to maintain multi-user global data.
Using this object, the state can be maintained throughout the application.

What is global.asax?
It is a file that contains application-level events.
Application State variables are available across all pages and across all sessions.
Application State variables are like multi-user global data (whereas session is single-user global data).

Application State
Used to maintain state at the application level.
Data stored in application state is common for all users.
Can be accessed anywhere in the application.
Used to handle situations like application started, application stopped, session started, session stopped, etc.
Using this state, we can identify how many users have logged in, logged out, etc.

Advantages & Disadvantages – Application
👍 Advantages
Application variable data is multi-user global data stored in memory.
Easy to access.
Fast retrieval.

👎 Disadvantages
Limited durability of data.
Limited performance.

Application vs Session
Application	Session
Application variables are all users’ global data	Single user global variable
Stored only in the web server	Stored in different places like InProc, StateServer, SQL Server, Custom
Cleared only when the process hosting the application is restarted	Cleared whenever the timeout is reached
All users can read and edit data	Only logged-in users can access data



Application State Events
Event	Purpose
Application_Start	This event gets raised whenever the application is restarted. This event contains code that initializes the number of users = 0.
Application_Stop	This event gets raised whenever the application is stopped.
Application_Error	This event is raised when an application fails to handle an exception.



Why Ajax?

Web pages built with ASP.NET Web server controls perform postbacks
Postbacks are initiated by a user action on the page, such as clicking a button
In the response, the server renders a new page
Frequently, this re-renders controls and text that did not change between postbacks
With partial-page rendering, you can refresh individual regions of the page asynchronously
This makes the page more responsive to the user
You can implement partial-page rendering using ASP.NET AJAX Web server controls
Optionally, write client script that uses the APIs in the Microsoft AJAX Library



What is Ajax?

Ajax – Asynchronous JavaScript and XML
A development technique used to create interactive web applications or rich internet applications
A technique used on the client browser to create asynchronous web applications
Using Ajax, web applications will pass data to and retrieve data from a web server asynchronously
Ajax is the feature that provides partial postback
Regular postback uses HttpRequest
Postback using Ajax uses XMLHttpRequest


Advantages (AJAX)

Reduces the traffic that travels between the client and the server.
No cross-browser pain.
Better interactivity and responsiveness.
With AJAX, several multi-purpose applications and features can be handled using a single web page (SPA).
APIs are good because they work with HTTP methods and JavaScript.



Disadvantages (AJAX)

Search engines like Google would not be able to index an AJAX application
It is totally built in JavaScript code; if any user disables JS in the browser, it won't work
The server information cannot be accessed within AJAX
Security is less in AJAX applications as all the files are downloaded on the client side
The data of all requests is URL-encoded, which increases the size of the request

What is PostBack?
What is Partial PostBack?
Submitting part of the page to the server instead of full-page submission
Only part of the page will be loaded
Whereas postback creates a new page as a result




Ajax Extension:

A category of controls introduced in Visual Studio to handle AJAX features

What is ScriptManager?
A control used to avail the advantage of ASP.NET AJAX framework
Required for every ASP.NET page which needs AJAX features
Compulsory as the first control when you want to use AJAX controls

What is UpdatePanel?
Control used to avail the Partial PostBack feature
If the control does not exist, a full PostBack will occur
This method will invoke implicitly in parallel for every specified number of seconds (Ajax Timer)




Ajax Extensions (Contd.)
What is ScriptManager?

The ScriptManager control takes care of the client-side script for all the server-side controls.

Syntax:
<asp:ScriptManager ID="ScriptManager1" runat="server">
</asp:ScriptManager>



